log-appender/README.md, before:

# Java log appenders

## Log4j 1.x appenders
The log4j 1.x http appender will send a post message to the `log-collector` process with the
contents of your log message.


## Special Handling 
- MDC: Fields stored in the MDC (or Mapped Diagnostic Context) will be added as a top level searchable
 field.  
- Message Properties: Fields found in the message properties will be added as a top level searchable
field. 
- NDC: The NDC (or Nested Diagnostic Context) is currently ignored

## Example log4j configuration
Here is an example log4j configuration file:

```bash
log4j.rootLogger=info, stdout, http
log4j.appender.stdout=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
log4j.appender.stdout.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.stdout.layout.ConversionPattern=%5p [%t] (%F:%L) - %m%n

log4j.appender.http=io.phdata.pulse.log.HttpAppender
log4j.appender.http.Address=http://edge2.valhalla.phdata.io:9015/v2/events/pulse-test-100
log4j.appender.http.layout=org.apache.log4j.core.layout.JsonLayout
log4j.appender.http.layout.compact=false
log4j.appender.http.layout.complete=true
# Info messages will cause the http client to recursively call the logger 
# when the connection to the log-collector is not available
log4j.logger.io.phdata.pulse.shade.org.apache.http=off
log4j.logger.io.phdata.pulse.shade.org.apache.wire=off

```

It's recommended (for now) that the logs be written to file in addition to Pulse through the http 
appender. Pulse doesn't currently make any availability guarantees.

Example usage:

```bash
$ java -cp my-jar.jar:log-appender-{version}.jar -Dlog4j.configuration=file:log4j.properties com.my.main.class
```

(Assuming the above log4j example is named `log4j.properties`)

## Configuration for Standalone Application
Add `log-appender-{version}.jar` to your classpath

## Installation for use with Spark
To install the log4j appender for use with Apache Spark, the `log-appender-{version}.jar`  needs
to be added to the classpath in `spark-env.sh`

To modify the classpath in Cloudera, add this line to the `spark-env.sh` safety valve and redeploy
client configuration:

```bash
export SPARK_DIST_CLASSPATH="$SPARK_DIST_CLASSPATH:/opt/cloudera/parcels/PULSE/lib/appenders/*"
```

Commit message:

Always flush buffers on an ERROR message
There is a JVM Shutdown hook that runs to flush any messages in the
buffer in case of application exit, but this is an extra guarantee that
error messages will be flushed in case of any application issues.

log-appender/README.md, after:


# Java log appenders

## Log4j 1.x appenders
The log4j 1.x http appender will send a post message to the `log-collector` process with the
contents of your log message. The appender will batch messages into groups of 1000 records and will 
flush when a group is available, 1 second has passed. The appender will always flush all messages
as soon as an ERROR level message is logged.

## Special Handling 
- MDC: Fields stored in the MDC (or Mapped Diagnostic Context) will be added as a top level searchable
 field.  
- Message Properties: Fields found in the message properties will be added as a top level searchable
field. 
- NDC: The NDC (or Nested Diagnostic Context) is currently ignored

## Example log4j configuration
Here is an example log4j configuration file:

```bash
log4j.rootLogger=info, stdout, http
log4j.appender.stdout=org.apache.log4j.ConsoleAppender
log4j.appender.stdout.layout=org.apache.log4j.PatternLayout
log4j.appender.stdout.layout.ConversionPattern=%5p [%t] (%F:%L) - %m%n

log4j.appender.http=io.phdata.pulse.log.HttpAppender
log4j.appender.http.Address=http://edge2.valhalla.phdata.io:9015/v2/events/pulse-test-100
log4j.appender.http.layout=org.apache.log4j.core.layout.JsonLayout
log4j.appender.http.layout.compact=false
log4j.appender.http.layout.complete=true
# Info messages will cause the http client to recursively call the logger 
# when the connection to the log-collector is not available
log4j.logger.io.phdata.pulse.shade.org.apache.http=off
log4j.logger.io.phdata.pulse.shade.org.apache.wire=off

```

It's recommended (for now) that the logs be written to file in addition to Pulse through the http 
appender. This appender currently doesn't currently make any availability guarantees.

Example usage:

```bash
$ java -cp my-jar.jar:log-appender-{version}.jar -Dlog4j.configuration=file:log4j.properties com.my.main.class
```

(Assuming the above log4j example is named `log4j.properties`)

## Configuration for Standalone Application
Add `log-appender-{version}.jar` to your classpath

## Installation for use with Spark
To install the log4j appender for use with Apache Spark, the `log-appender-{version}.jar`  needs
to be added to the classpath in `spark-env.sh`

To modify the classpath in Cloudera, add this line to the `spark-env.sh` safety valve and redeploy
client configuration:

```bash
export SPARK_DIST_CLASSPATH="$SPARK_DIST_CLASSPATH:/opt/cloudera/parcels/PULSE/lib/appenders/*"
```
